Fish passage programs are often used to reduce the effects of artificial barriers such as dams. The effectiveness of these programs is often poorly quantified, preventing both improvements through operational changes and evaluations of population-level effects of reduced passage. Mark-recapture studies are a common approach to measuring passage effectiveness. Fish are transported upstream after they are trapped a first time. The proportion that of marked fish that are recaptured are then assumed to be representative of overall collection efficiency. The models used for this are often overly simplistic and do not allow variation in collection efficiency on a realistic time scale based on environmental and operating conditions. These estimates also do not account for variation in abundance arriving at the trap over the migration season. The model presented here accounts for the varying travel time between post-mark release and recapture, allowing collection efficiency to be estimated on a daily time scale. Estimates of collection efficiency can inform dam and trap operations by including effects of environmental and operational covariates. Collection efficiency estimates combined with the number of unmarked fish captured each day allows for estimates of the total number of fish arriving at the trap. These abundance estimates can then be used to estimate overall collection efficiency to inform compliance with licensing requirements, as well as to inform lifecycle models to estimate population-level effects.

