Mark-recapture experiments are often used to estimate the abundance of migratory
fishes such as Pacific salmonids. Reliable estimates of abundance also require
estimates of collection efficiency. Estimates of collection efficiency can play
an important role in management, and particularly in evaluating the
effectiveness of fish transport programs that are used to move fish past
artificial barriers such as hydropower dams. The models currently used to
estimate abundance and collection efficiency are often simplistic, operate on a
time scale that is too coarse to account for variation in environmental and
operating conditions experienced by the migrating fish. The model presented here
simultaneously estimates collection efficiency and abundance on a daily time
scale. It also allows for variation in the delay between release of marked
individuals and recapture. Complex covariate effects can be estimated, including
smoothed effects to account for nonlinear responses of migrating fish. These
effects can be used to inform collection operations. Temporal smooths of both
abundance and collection efficiency can also be included, allowing the
estimation of abundance even on days when the trap is not operational.
Parameters are estimated in a Bayesian framework. The abundance estimates can
then be used to estimate overall collection efficiency to inform compliance with
licensing requirements, as well as to inform lifecycle models to estimate
population-level effects.

Fish passage programs are often used to reduce the effects of artificial
barriers such as dams for anadromous Pacific salmonids. The effectiveness of
these programs is often poorly quantified, preventing both improvements through
operational changes and evaluations of population-level effects of reduced
passage. Mark-recapture studies are a common approach to measuring passage
effectiveness. Fish are transported upstream after they are trapped a first
time. The proportion that of marked fish that are recaptured are then assumed to
be representative of overall collection efficiency. The models used for this are
often overly simplistic and do not allow variation in collection efficiency on a
realistic time scale based on environmental and operating conditions. These
estimates also do not account for variation in abundance of unmarked individuals
arriving at the trap over the migration season. The model presented here
accounts for the varying travel time between post-mark release and recapture,
allowing collection efficiency to be estimated on a daily time scale. Estimates
of collection efficiency can inform dam and trap operations by including effects
of environmental and operational covariates. Collection efficiency estimates
combined with the number of unmarked fish captured each day allows for estimates
of the total number of fish arriving at the trap. These abundance estimates can
then be used to estimate overall collection efficiency to inform compliance with
licensing requirements, as well as to inform lifecycle models to estimate
population-level effects.

